---
layout: post
title: "Website is viewable for feedback"
tags: [archive]
comments: true
hidden: true

---
GSWOC International Student Committee email back up
# Mar 25, 2022

Hi everyone,

An early version of the new GSWOC website is viewable! To access, go to gswoc-usc.org and enter password **************.

An international student page along the lines of what we discussed in the committee is already in place. Of course, there is still a lot of content to add (like the international student survey) and tweaks to make. Aside from feedback we've already been talking about in the international student committee, there is also a general google doc for providing feedback here: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1aWvDqtvqmtF_XMPkiWAlBes7xgrF5jT-R-RaWFkdEVw/edit

Cheers,
Rob

# Mar 25, 2022

Regarding the "join" button.
I think we can add a link to this google group, and change this group setting to allow people to ask to join it.
Capture.PNG Capture2.PNG

# Mar 27, 2022

That makes sense to me. We should also talk about doing a little bit of vetting when somebody clicks on that link. For example, we might want to check that they actually are a USC grad student. And if this committee continues to be a place where we talk about campaign strategy, we should also probably check to that they have signed an authorization card. If they haven't done so yet, someone from the committee could reach out asap, answer their questions, and then hopefully they sign a card and join the committee.
# Mar 27, 2022

Yes, I agree vetting is needed.
I think we can link it to a google form, which would ask some basic questions: name, USC email address, department, signed an authorization card or not, questions. etc.
And then, someone from the committee could reach out.

Thanks for your suggestion!
Best,
R
# Mar 30, 2022

Hi Rob,
I just found this https://www.nilc.org/issues/immigration-enforcement/immigrant-participation-in-protests-rights/
On our website, we mentioned " All international students enjoy the same rights to freedom of expression and freedom of association as U.S. nationals."
Which I think is inaccurate.
Do you think we should change that on our website?

Best,
R