---
layout: post
title: "International Student Committee Meeting"
tags: [archive]
comments: true
hidden: true

---
GSWOC International Student Committee email back up
# Jun 24, 2022
Hi all,

Hope you are having a great summer. It is exciting that GSWOC is hosting a town hall next week. Some of us thinks that it is a good idea to host one specifically about issues of international students. Let us meet in two weeks for next international students committee meeting and figure out a plan. We can also discuss about the experiences and difficulties we had when organizing international students. Please fill out the when2meet so that we can find a time that works for the most people. Looking forward to see you all.

Best

B

# Jul 1, 2022

Hi all,

Looks like most people are available from 3pm - 4pm on Wednesday July 6th. Here is a Zoom link:

The agendas are:
* 1, check-in with progress of organizing international students and discuss strategies. 
* 2, plan for an international students town hall.

Looking forward to see you all.

Best

B

# Jul 9, 2022

Hi all, 

Here is a summary of the international student committee meeting last Wednesday.:
1. We decided to do an international student town hall the first Week of August, tentatively August 3rd at 3:00, and the second choice is August 4th at 12:00. It will be hybrid (both zoom and in person). 
2. We set a turnout goal of 50 people for the town hall.
3. We're working on finding 3 - 5 grad student workers to be panelists for the town hall, including 1 - 2 from other Universities that have unionized. Let me know if you are interested!
4. We decided that we would first announce the town hall by email and WeChat 2 weeks ahead of time, with additional reminders afterwards. We also decided that we would do some phone banking to increase turnout. We also need folks to help spread the word during walkthroughs.
5. We'll be meeting again Wednesday, July 20 at 3 pm to continue planning our town hall.

Best,

B

# Jul 18, 2022

Hi all,

As we agreed in the last meeting, we will have a the next meeting this Wednesday at 3 pm to continue planning for international student town hall. In this meeting, we will:
1. Decide on a date and time.
2. Make plans for phone banking as well as other turnout plans.
3. Discuss the email to card signers. A draft will be available before the meeting.
4. Come up with the agenda for the town hall.

B

# Jul 20, 2022

Here are some data analysis from the international student survey.

B