---
layout: post
title: "Meeting with bargaining team member"
tags: [archive]
comments: true
hidden: true
---
GSWOC International Student Committee email back up
# Apr 21, 2023
Hi everyone,

We had an informal meeting with Sina Baharlouei ( xx@usc.edu ), the only international student in the bargaining team. We discussed how we can help the bargaining team about demands related to international students. 

The meeting was very productive. Sina said he is looking forward to future meeting with more people. All international students are welcome to join. I will post it after being finalized.

Meanwhile, feel free to reply to this email, and share your ideas about how we all can help bargaining team to win demands related to international students.

Here are the things we discussed in the meeting, everyone is welcome to help.

## Collect Personal Story/Testimony

Summary:

Personal stories of negative experiences at USC will help us understand what change we want.

Also, it will help us to advocate for changes. Bargaining team will share testimony of international students at bargaining.

So we decided to collect these stories.

Action items:

    Personal outreach, ask people we know directly

    Ask department leader to help collecting these stories (S, R will ask K, et.c, Maybe write a draft . 

    Put a box on GSWOC website, asking people to share stories

    Ask directly at GSOWC general OC meeting this Friday (S, S) 

    Ask in the GSOWC email list


## Redesign survey:

Summary:

The old survey was very broad. Now based on what we’ve collected,we want to be more specific in the survey, also collect stories in the survey.

Action items:

    Redesign the survey (S, R, B) Will be next Monday 10 AM, please send a message to R if you want to join xx@usc.edu 

A more detailed meeting note is here. I also included a brief transcript. Everyone in the meeting contributed their ideas, and I hope more people can join the discussion!

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Q1beJuY1CwSld9atIZShr2l4ba0SyRVxcbK6CS0K6SQ/edit#

Also, as a recap, here is the doc we created last year. We collected a lot of specific things international students want to change.

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1q6fnGQfVAycQTcX91x5mvCduGh9U9ATxeAvlF9f6ApU/edit

Best,
R